# Week 11 - Monitor and Review

What is Policy Review Process in cybersecurity?

* In addition to allowing the company to build a formal security program, Information Security Policy ensures better control over its information security assets.
* By conducting information security policy reviews, policy and practices are implemented and managed in compliance with information security standards.

Why?

* New cyberthreats and risks emerge seemingly every hour.
* Organization’s systems and workstations to the internet always opens up the possibility of a cyberattack.
* Unfortunately, cybercrime is becoming a very rewarding business for hackers.
* Just as the cyber threat constantly evolves, so too should the policies.
* Outdated cybersecurity policies can leave your organization at risk, and leave your IT systems and technology vulnerable.
* Find the right time to update the policies.
* Find who should be involved in the process.

Three Key Tasks:

* Policy reauthorisation: Continuing acceptance of information security policies.
* Policy retirement:
    * Outdated refreshed
    * No longer applicable retired
* Policy update:
    * Changes needed
    * Helps to ensure that they remain effective in protecting the organisation's data and systems.

Make sure you make the right notification when you do them.

## Monitoring

### Integrate with monitoring function

* Post-implementation, compliance, and policy effectiveness need to be monitored and reported.
* Mechanisms to monitor compliance range from application-generated metrics to manual audits, surveys, interviews, and violation and incident reports.
* Ensure new processes continue to perform over time - major challenge.
* Monitoring checks.
    * how employees are using the policy.
    * What issues they have in using it.
    * Whether they need more guidance or clarification.
* Revisit.
    * Periodically revisit the policy to check.
        * Its adaptability to the organizational goals, culture and business environment.

Monitor Security Controls:
1. Determine impact of changes to the system and environment.
2. Assess selected controls annually.
3. Conduct needed remediation.
4. Update security plan.
5. Report security status to Authorising Official (AO).
6. AO reviews reported status.
7. Implement system decommissioning strategy.

Check lecture for more details.

## Enforcement

Enforceable means that administrative, physical, or technical controls can be put in place to support the policy, if necessary, sanctions should be applied. There must be fair action if rule is broken.
* Sanctions should always be clearly defined.
* But policy itself should be enforced in a consistent and uniformed way.

Methods:
* A terminating employee should be handled with care.
* Zero-trust networks should be installed.
* BYOD devices should be limited in the amount of information they can access.
* Encourage your users not to share their passwords.
* Ensure security is at the forefront of everything we do.
* Training your employees is the best way to ensure success.
* Do not hesitate to write it down. Punishments must be spelled out and enforced.
